# Trial-level analysis 

## For Revision #1 of *Robust neurocognitive individual differences in grammatical agreement processing: A latent variable approach*
### *Article submitted to the journal **Cortex***

----- 
The files and subdirectories in this folder contain the scripts, datasets, and model objects from the trial-level analysis conducted for the revision of the above manuscript. 

### **Description of the files and folders**

* **Trial-level_Mixed_Models.html**: html output file for the data prep and mixed model analyses; generated by Trial-level Mixed Models.Rmd

* **get_trial_data.m**: This is a Matlab script that gets trial-level mean amplitudes for the 300-500ms and 500-800ms time windows from all epochs in the trial-rejected EEGsets from EEGLAB. Artifact rejection and bin information is included for each trial in the output csv files. These EEGsets are large and are not included in this repository. This file is therefore documented for reproducibility; running the file will require downloading the raw EEG data files from https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataverse/AgreementIndiff and processing them in Matlab using EEGLAB.  
  
* **Trial-level Mixed Models.Rmd**: Raw Rmarkdown file used for loading and preprocessing trial-data (output from get_trial_data.m), and then fitting linear mixed effects regression models on the trial-level data. These regression analyses investigated whether the effects of grammaticality and verb type were moderated by individual difference factors related to language experience and working memory. These models included random effect terms for both subjects and items.

* **Get_Item_functions.R**: Helper functions for getting item identifier information. Called in Get_Item_Nums_RSVP.R and Get_Item_Nums_SPR.R

* **Get_Item_Nums_RSVP.R**: Gets item number information for participants in the RSVP task for each trial from the EEGLAB/ERPLAB event files (in /Event Files/) for use as item identifiers. Calls Get_Item_functions.R.

* **Get_Item_Nums_SPR.R**: Same as Get_Item_Nums_RSVP.R but for participants in the SPR task.

* **/Datafiles/**: Includes the raw data files needed by the above functions.

* **/Event Files/**: Contains the EEGLAB/ERPLAB event files for each participant. Files information necessary for extracting item numbers for each EEG epoch used in the mixed effects model analyses. 

* **/Model Objects/**: Contains output model objects in .rds format from the trial-level mixed effects model analyses. Model objects are generated by the code in Trial-level Mixed Models.Rmd
  
* **/Tree-based Regression Analyses/**: Scripts, files, and model objects for some exploratory analyses I am working on. These analyses use non-parametric conditional inference regression tree and random forest approaches to find converging evidence for the linear mixed effects models. Tree-based regression methods are much more flexible than linear regression models and their extension (GL(M)Ms). They assume no particular for the function relating predictors to outcomes, and they can model arbitrarily complex interactions, when justified by the data, without needing to be specified in the model matrix by the researcher. These models are a bottom-up, data-driven approach to understanding how fixed experimental factors and individual differences relate to EEG/ERP effects (trial-level data are modeled currently). **Note that these scripts and files are incomplete and by their nature exploratory. They will therefore be changed and updated as the project progresses.**


